README.md, before:

# TagSH (`ver 0.3`)
tag and categorize your directories, find them easily with your file manager or your shell

Language of script messages is italian for now. Sorry international people 

## install 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PsykeDady/TagSH
./TagSH/install.sh
```

### or manually
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PsykeDady/TagSH
sudo mv TagSH /usr/share/TagSH # or move into a custom directory
sudo ln -sf /usr/share/TagSH/tag.sh /usr/bin/tagsh # or link from your custom directory, or expand your PATH env
```

## uninstall
```bash
/usr/share/tagSH/uninstall.sh
```

### or manually
```bash
sudo rm /usr/bin/tagsh
sudo rm -rf /usr/share/TagSH
rm -rf $HOME/.tag
```

then open these two file with your text editor:  

file: `$HOME/.config/gtk3-0/bookmarks`  
delete:
```bash
file:///home/yourname/.tag TagSH
```

file: `$HOME/.local/share/user-places.xbel`  
delete:
```xml
<bookmark href="file:///home/yourname/.tag">
  <title>TagSH</title>
  <info>
   <metadata>
    <bookmark:icon name="tag-symbolic"/>
   </metadata>
  </info>
</bookmark>
```

## usage

`tagsh [options] path tagname [link name]`

OPTIONS:  
- **no option**		: add tag to path or file ( optionally can write a *link name* ) 
- `-d` or `--debug` 	: DEBUG MODE ON
- `-l`			: list all tags
- `-l tagname`		: list all file under specified tag
- `-r nometag` remove tag and unlink all it's content
- `-r nometag nomelink`  unlink an element from specified tag
- `--remove`  alternative to -r.


WHAT YOU CAN DO:  
- you can use abs or rel paths

WHAT YOU CAN'T DO:  
- you can use **only** tag name (or link name) with alphanumeric chars
- you can't tag with same tag two different directory with same name (but you can name it differently!) 

OTHER TRICKS:  
- to rename tag, you can go to directory `$HOME/.tag` and rename its directory
- to rename association, go into directory `$HOME/.tag/tagname` and rename file

EXAMPLES:  
- link directory `/home/yourname/workspace/java` with tag **javacodes** under *wjava* name:  
`tagsh ~/workspace/java javacodes wjava`
- link directory `eclipse/java` (relative path) with tag **javacodes** without rename it:  
`tagsh eclipse/java javacodes`
- list all tag  
`tagsh -l`
- list all file under tag **javacodes**  
`tagsh -l javacodes`
- remove tag javacode from eclipse/java element  
`tagsh -r javacodes java`
- remove tag javacodes and all it's association
`tagsh -r `javacodes`


## TODO list for next versions:

- ~~command to delete an association~~
- ~~command to delete an entire tag~~
- command to rename a tag
- command to rename an association 
- ~~debug mode and silent mode (default)~~ 
- implement language translations file ( ita, eng )
- minimalist GUI and dolphin service with kdialog
- minimalist GUI with zenity

Commit message:

test file improved.  bookmark-old file not regenerated

README.md, after:

# TagSH (`ver 0.6`)
tag and categorize your directories, find them easily with your file manager or your shell

Language of script messages is italian for now. Sorry international people 

## test

> <u>WARNING</u>
> Test script is not ready! it can cause some bug to TagSH system. Be aware by now to install it

Test script check if your system is compatible with tagsh ( and if project has some bugs...)
It 

## install 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PsykeDady/TagSH
./TagSH/install.sh
```

### or manually
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PsykeDady/TagSH
sudo mv TagSH /usr/share/TagSH # or move into a custom directory
sudo ln -sf /usr/share/TagSH/tag.sh /usr/bin/tagsh # or link from your custom directory, or expand your PATH env
```

## uninstall
```bash
/usr/share/tagSH/uninstall.sh
```

### or manually
```bash
sudo rm /usr/bin/tagsh
sudo rm -rf /usr/share/TagSH
rm -rf $HOME/.tag
```

then open these two file with your text editor:  

file: `$HOME/.config/gtk3-0/bookmarks`  
delete:
```bash
file:///home/yourname/.tag TagSH
```

file: `$HOME/.local/share/user-places.xbel`  
delete:
```xml
<bookmark href="file:///home/yourname/.tag">
  <title>TagSH</title>
  <info>
   <metadata>
    <bookmark:icon name="tag-symbolic"/>
   </metadata>
  </info>
</bookmark>
```

## usage

`tagsh [options] path tagname [link name]`

OPTIONS:  
- **no option**		: add tag to path or file ( optionally can write a *link name* ) 
- `-d` or `--debug` 	: DEBUG MODE ON
- `-l`			: list all tags
- `-l tagname`		: list all file under specified tag
- `-r nometag` remove tag and unlink all it's content
- `-r nometag nomelink`  unlink an element from specified tag
- `--remove`  alternative to -r.


WHAT YOU CAN DO:  
- you can use abs or rel paths

WHAT YOU CAN'T DO:  
- you can use **only** tag name (or link name) with alphanumeric chars
- you can't tag with same tag two different directory with same name (but you can name it differently!) 

OTHER TRICKS:  
- to rename tag, you can go to directory `$HOME/.tag` and rename its directory
- to rename association, go into directory `$HOME/.tag/tagname` and rename file

EXAMPLES:  
- link directory `/home/yourname/workspace/java` with tag **javacodes** under *wjava* name:  
`tagsh ~/workspace/java javacodes wjava`
- link directory `eclipse/java` (relative path) with tag **javacodes** without rename it:  
`tagsh eclipse/java javacodes`
- list all tag  
`tagsh -l`
- list all file under tag **javacodes**  
`tagsh -l javacodes`
- remove tag javacode from eclipse/java element  
`tagsh -r javacodes java`
- remove tag javacodes and all it's association
`tagsh -r `javacodes`


## TODO list for next versions:

- ~~command to delete an association~~
- ~~command to delete an entire tag~~
- command to rename a tag
- command to rename an association 
- ~~debug mode and silent mode (default)~~ 
- implement language translations file ( ita, eng )
- minimalist GUI and dolphin service with kdialog
- minimalist GUI with zenity
